now the men of Israel had sworn an oath
at Misbah none of us shall give his
daughter to Benjamin as a wife then the
people came to the house of God and
remained there before God till evening
they lifted up their voices and wept
bitterly o Lord God of Israel why has
this come to pass in Israel that took
day there should be one tribe missing in
Israel so it was on the next morning
that the people rose early and built an
altar there and offered burnt offerings
and peace offerings the children of
Israel said who is there among all the
tribes of Israel who did not come up
with the Assembly to the Lord for they
had made a great oath concerning anyone
who had not come up to the Lord at
Mizpah saying he shall surely be put to
death and the children of Israel grieved
for Benjamin their brother one tribe is
cut off from Israel today what shall we
do for wives for those who remain seeing
we have sworn by the Lord that we will
not give them our daughters as wives
what one is there from the tribes of
Israel who did not come up to Misbah to
the Lord and in fact no one had come to
the camp from jabish Gilead to the
Assembly for when the people were
counted indeed not one of the
inhabitants of jabish Gilead was there
so the congregation sent out their
twelve thousand of our most valiant men
and commanded them saying go and strike
the inhabitants of jabish Gilead with
the edge of the sword including the
women and children and this is the thing
you shall do
we shall utterly destroy every male and
every woman who has known a man
intimately so they found among the
inhabitants of jabish Gilead four
hundred young virgins who had not known
a man intimately and they brought them
to the camp at Shiloh which is in the
land of Canaan then the whole
congregation sent word to the children
of Benjamin who were at the rock of
remin and announced peace to them so
Benjamin came back at that time and they
gave them the women whom they had saved
a life of the women of jabish Gilead and
yet they had not found enough for them
and the people grieved for Benjamin
because the Lord had made a void in the
tribes of Israel then the elders of the
congregation said what shall we do for
wives for those who remain since the
women of Benjamin have been destroyed
there must be an inheritance for the
survivors of Benjamin that a tribe may
not be destroyed from Israel however we
cannot give them wives from our
daughters for the children of Israel
have sworn an oath saying cursed be the
one who gives a wife to Benjamin in fact
there is a yearly Feast of the Lord in
Shiloh which is north of Bethel on the
east side of the highway that comes up
from Bethel to Shechem and south of
Lebanon
therefore they instructed the children
of Benjamin go lie in wait in the
vineyards and watch and just when the
daughters of Shiloh come out to perform
their dances then come out from the
vineyards and every man catch a wife for
himself from the daughters of Shiloh
then go to the land of Benjamin then it
shall be and their fathers or their
brothers come to us to complain that we
will say to them be kind to them for our
sakes
because we did not take a wife for any
of them in the war for it is not as
though you have given the women to them
at this time making yourselves guilty of
your oaths and the children of Benjamin
did sir
they took enough wives for their number
from those who danced whom they caught
then they went and returned to their
inheritance and they rebuilt the cities
and dwelt in them so the children of
Israel departed from there at that time
every man to his tribe and family they
went out from there every man to his
inheritance in those days there was no
king in Israel everyone did what was
right in his own eyes